## SSL (TLS)
SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) is the standard security technology for establishing an encrypted link between a web server and a browser. This link ensures that all data passed between the web server and browsers remain private and integral. The authentication process uses public-key encryption to validate the digital certificate and confirm that a server is in fact the server it claims to be.

To be able to create an SSL connection a web server requires an SSL Certificate. When you choose to activate SSL on your web server you will be prompted to complete a number of questions about the identity of your website and your company. Your web server then creates two cryptographic keys - a Private Key and a Public Key.

The Public Key does not need to be secret and is placed into a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) - a data file also containing your details. You should then submit the CSR. During the SSL Certificate application process, the Certification Authority will validate your details and issue an SSL Certificate containing your details and allowing you to use SSL. Your web server will match your issued SSL Certificate to your Private Key. Your web server will then be able to establish an encrypted link between the website and your customer's web browser.

Clicking on the lock icon in user's browser displays your SSL Certificate and the details about it. All SSL Certificates are issued to either companies or legally accountable individuals. When a browser connects to a secure site it will retrieve the site's SSL Certificate and check that it has not expired, it has been issued by a Certification Authority the browser trusts, and that it is being used by the website for which it has been issued. If it fails on any one of these checks the browser will display a warning to the end user letting them know that the site is not secured by SSL.

Using the OSI reference model as context, SSL runs above the TCP/IP protocol, which is responsible for the transport and routing of data over a network, and below higher-level protocols such as HTTP and IMAP, encrypting the data of network connections in the application layer of the Internet Protocol suite. The "sockets" part of the term refers to the sockets method of passing data back and forth between a client and a server program in a network, or between program layers in the same computer.

#### History
The SSL protocol was developed by Netscape Communications in the 1990s. The company wanted to encrypt data in transit between its flagship Netscape Navigator browser and Web servers on the Internet to ensure that sensitive data, such as credit card numbers, were protected. Version 3.0 involved a complete redesign and was released in 1996. After the IETF officially took over the SSL protocol to standardize it via an open process, version 3.1 of SSL was released as Transport Layer Security 1.0 and introduced security improvements to mitigate weaknesses that had been found in earlier versions. (The name was changed to avoid any legal issues with Netscape.) TLS and SSL are not interoperable, though TLS provides backwards compatibility in order to work with legacy systems. TLS 1.2 is the latest version.

#### Specs
As opposed to unsecured HTTP URLs which begin with "http://" and use port 80 by default, secure HTTPS URLs begin with "https://" and use port 443 by default. SSL certificates are provided by Certificate Authorities (CAs). A certificate authority is an entity which issues digital certificates to organizations or people after validating them.

Most SSL server certificates will only secure a single domain name or sub-domain. For example, a certificate could secure www.yourdomain.com or mail.yourdomain.com but not both. The certificate will still work on a different domain name but the web browser will give an error anytime it sees that the address in the address bar doesn't match the domain name (called a common name) in the certificate. If you need to secure multiple sub-domains on a single domain name, you can buy a wildcard certificate. For a wildcard certificate, a common name of *.yourdomain.com would secure www.yourdomain.com, mail.yourdomain.com, secure.yourdomain.com, etc... There are also special certificates such as Unified Communications (UC) certificates for Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 that can secure several different domain names in one certificate.
